The company, which employs about 88,000, has been mired for years in fruitless union negotiations American Airlines has filed for bankruptcy protection to cut labour costs  in the face of high fuel prices and dampened travel demand, capping a prolonged  descent for what was once the largest U.S. carrier. AMR Corp, the parent of American Airlines, also filed for bankruptcy and  replaced its chief executive. The company, which employs about 88,000, has been mired for years in  fruitless union negotiations, complaining that it shoulders higher labour costs  than rival domestic and foreign carriers that have already restructured in  bankruptcy. United Continental Holdings Inc's United Airlines and Delta Air Lines Inc,  both of which used Chapter 11 to cut costs and later found merger partners, are  now the largest U.S. carriers. American ranks third. "The world changed around us," incoming Chief Executive Tom Horton told  reporters on a conference call. "It became increasingly clear that the cost gap  between us and our competitors was untenable." AMR named Horton as chairman and chief executive, replacing Gerard Arpey, who  retired. American plans to operate normally while in bankruptcy, but the Chapter 11  filing could punch a hole in the pensions of roughly 130,000 workers and  retirees. AMR pension plans are $10 billion short of what the carrier owes, and any  default could be the largest in U.S. history, government pension insurers  estimated. Ray Neidl, aerospace analyst at Maxim Group, said a lack of progress in  contract talks with pilots tipped the carrier into Chapter 11, though it has  enough cash to operate. The carrier's passenger planes average 3,000 daily U.S.  departures. "They were proactive," Neidl said. "They should have adequate cash reserves  to get through this." PROBLEMS TO ADDRESS Bankruptcy gives AMR a chance to pare less profitable operations, and could  result in the sale of flight routes. The process also gives AMR more  flexibility, according to Jack Williams, a professor of law at Georgia State  University. "There are considerable tax benefits that they will be able to use in a  bankruptcy case, and they will be able to more aggressively manage their  liabilities," Williams said. But analysts question whether the bankruptcy will address operational  shortcomings that have eroded revenue. "Bankruptcy is not necessarily the be-all, end-all," said Helane Becker, an  analyst with Dahlman Rose & Co. "They've got more problems to address in  addition to the cost problem." SLIMMED-DOWN AMR In its bankruptcy petition filed in Manhattan, AMR reported assets of $24.72  billion and liabilities of $29.55 billion. The company has $4.1 billion in  cash. One bankruptcy rule is "don't wait too long," Harvey Miller, a partner at  Weil, Gotshal & Manges representing AMR, said at a court hearing. "Don't  wait until the course is irreversible. That is what American Airlines is doing  today." AMR's bankruptcy filing showed few details about how the company would  proceed, said Stephen Selbst, a bankruptcy attorney with Herrick Feinstein in  New York. "It's possible they are still in negotiations and don't want to put something  on paper that might prejudice those negotiations," he said. Experts believe AMR stands to save billions by restructuring its obligations  in bankruptcy. "AMR will no longer have its defined benefit pension plan, helping absorb  nearly $7 billion in debt," Morningstar equity analyst Basili Alukos  said. "I imagine the company can save between $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion in labour  costs, in addition to savings on repair and maintenance and better fuel burn,"  he said. MERGER IN THE OFFING? AMR said the bankruptcy has no direct legal impact on non-U.S. operations. It  also said it was not considering debtor-in-possession financing. But it could susceptible to unsolicited takeover bids from rival carriers.  AMR has long said it could thrive on its own. Robert Herbst, an analyst with AirlineFinancials.com and a former American  pilot, said there was a "95 percent" chance American would join up with another  carrier within two years. "US Airways is probably toward the top of the list but it wouldn't be the  only (potential merger partner)," he said. A US Airways representative did not immediately return a phone call seeking  comment. Most large U.S. carriers are the products of mergers. United Continental combined the former United Airlines and Continental  Airlines, while Delta bought the former Northwest Airlines. US Airways was  formed from a 2005 merger with America West Airlines. US Airways and United Airlines filed for bankruptcy protection in 2002, and  Delta and Northwest in 2005. US Airways had tried to buy Delta out of  bankruptcy. Japan Airlines Co, one of American Airlines' alliance  partners, filed for bankruptcy last year. American Airlines said it would remain an active member of the oneworld  global airline alliance. LABOUR PAIN American struggled with labour costs despite massive concessions from  unionized workers in 2003, which enabled it to avoid Chapter 11 at the  time. "That deal wasn't good enough," former American chief Robert Crandall told  Reuters. "The other airlines that went bankrupt cut their costs much deeper than  American. "If you look at all of the elements of the problem, they all stem back to  costs," he said. "It hasn't cut capacity effectively given the constraints" that  labour placed. Contract talks with pilots hit a wall in recent weeks over wages, benefits  and work rules. Talks with unionized flight attendants have also  flagged. "While today's news was not entirely unexpected, it is nevertheless  disappointing that we find ourselves working for an airline that has lost its  way," David Bates, president of the Allied Pilots Association, said in a  statement. A wave of pilot retirements this year prompted speculation of a Chapter 11  filing, given that the retirements could preserve pensions that might be at risk  of being terminated. "The 18-month timeline allotted for restructuring will almost certainly  involve significant changes to the airline's business plan and to our contract,"  Bates said.