Rescue workers are digging for survivors and struggling to reach areas cut off by floods and landslides that have killed at least 482 people in one of Brazil's deadliest natural disasters Torrents of mud and water set off by heavy rains left a trail of destruction  through the mountainous Serrana region near Rio de Janeiro, toppling houses,  buckling roads and burying entire families as they slept. "It's like an earthquake struck some areas," said Jorge Mario, the mayor of  Teresopolis, where more than 200 people were killed and scores more are feared  to be dead. "The death toll is going to climb a lot. There are a lot of people buried who  can't get help because rescue teams can't get there," Mario said, adding that  three of the town's neighbourhoods were destroyed by the flooding. Hillsides and riverbanks in the area, about 60 miles north of Rio, collapsed  after the equivalent of a month's rain fell in 24 hours from Tuesday  night. More heavy rain is forecast, complicating rescue efforts and raising the risk  of further mudslides. The homes of rich and poor alike were swept away in and around Teresopolis  and other towns, likely causing billions of dollars in damage. But the brunt of  the disaster was borne by poorer rural residents in houses built in risky areas  without formal planning permission. The floods have not affected Brazil's main export crops -- soy, sugar cane,  oranges and coffee -- but could push up local food prices further as the small  Serrana region is an important producer of fruit and vegetables for the Rio  area. Rio, famed for its beaches and Carnival, will co-host soccer's World Cup in  2014 and host the Olympics in 2016. Rescuers tried to haul residents from raging floodwaters and went through the  ruins of homes in search of survivors, often finding only corpses. One success  came when a 6-month-old baby was rescued from the rubble of a house, drawing  thunderous cheers from residents. One woman held a dog in the ruins of her house as powerful waters tore at the  remaining walls. She grabbed a rope thrown by residents from a nearby rooftop  and eventually was pulled to safety, after dropping the dog into the vicious  current. In Nova Friburgo, a rural town first settled by Swiss immigrants, at least  200 people died, local officials said. President Dilma Rousseff, facing her first major challenge since taking  office on January 1, called the disaster a tragedy that could not be blamed only  on nature. "Housing in areas of risk is the rule in Brazil rather than the exception,"  she said in Rio after flying over the flooded region and visiting Nova Friburgo,  where much of the damage was done to homes built precariously at the base of  steep hills. "When there aren't housing policies, where are people who earn no more than  twice the minimum wage going to live?"