THE Witwatersrand African Taxi Association says it has been robbed of about R160000 in cash by people who were dressed in police and private security uniforms. Wata spokesman Milton Mdakane said yesterday the robbers attacked four security guards at the old Engen garage in White City, Soweto, on Saturday night before stealing the money during an armed robbery. The garage, which is no longer in service, is now used by taxi operators to park their vehicles at night. Mdakane said the money belonged to 18 Wata members. "I got a call at about 12.30am informing me of the robbery," he said. "I called other owners and we went to the garage. We found the police already there because we had called them." He said the thugs had pointed guns at the guards and tied their hands with tyre cables before breaking into the building and stealing the money. Recounting the events of the robbery traumatised security guard Tshepo Kwebu said a police van arrived at the garage at about midnight with two uniformed police officers and a woman dressed in civilian clothes. He said the officers told them they were looking for a stolen vehicle among the minibus taxis parked at the garage. "They said they were looking for a stolen car. We told them there was no stolen car in the garage. "They returned to their vehicle, which they had parked at the garage. "They later returned and demanded to know our names, saying they want to write them on their book because they had spoken to us. But we refused (to give the names)," Kwebu said. He said a black van belonging to a private security company pulled over. He said two uniformed private security guards alighted, already carrying guns in their hands. "They ordered us to lie down. The police joined them as they tied our hands behind our backs. "They led us to a passage between the taxis, kicking us," Kwebu said. He said two of the officers kept watch on them while others broke into the old shop building. The criminals used crowbars to break into the building. "The next thing we heard was a noise from the building and I could tell they were breaking something. We managed to free ourselves after they had left. "When we went to investigate we discovered they had cut open two money safes and took the cash," he said. Mdakane said they had reported the matter to Moroka police station, but the police had not registered the case. Police spokesman Warrant Officer Kay Makhubela said the taxi owners should return to the police station and report the matter to the station commander if they were not getting any help from the police.