MADRID - Third-tier Albacete could seal the fate of Atletico Madrid coach Gregorio Manzano if they can capitalise on a 2-1 lead in a King's Cup last-32 second leg at the Calderon tomorrow. Atletico is one of a number of top-flight clubs facing difficulties in the cup against lower league opposition along with Levante, Real Betis, Villarreal, Valencia, Espanyol and Real Zaragoza this week. Nine-time winners Atletico's season is threatening to fall apart with their fans in open revolt against the unpopular Manzano and the board, while the team have been putting in wildly erratic performances. Luis Aragones, Luiz Felipe Scolari or Rafa Benitez are mooted as possible replacements while former Arsenal winger Jose Antonio Reyes looks set to be sold to Sevilla to help finance the change. Atletico's first home defeat of the campaign, 2-0 against promoted Betis on Sunday, left the 2010 cup finalists in mid-table in La Liga and with Manzano calling for the fans to get behind the team. Levante, fourth in La Liga, trail second division Deportivo Coruna 3-1 and Betis are 1-0 down against second division Cordoba. Both play tomorrow. Valencia return to the Mestalla with the scoreline at 0-0 against third-tier Cadiz on Thursday, the same result Espanyol hold when they host second division Celta Vigo tonight. Villarreal are at home to third tier Mirandes tomorrow having drawn 1-1 in the first leg, and coach Juan Carlos Garrido is feeling the heat. They are out of Europe, hovering above the relegation zone and without a win in seven outings. Zaragoza coach Javier Aguirre is also in the spotlight tomorrow when La Liga's basement club entertain second division Alcorcon with the scores at 1-1. Alcorcon famously dumped Real Madrid out of the cup two years ago when they were a third tier side. There would appear to be little chance of holders Real slipping up this time as they take a 2-0 lead back to the Bernabeu against third tier Ponferradina tonight. Newly crowned world club champions Barcelona jet back from Japan in time for their second leg at home to near neighbours Hospitalet on Thursday, leading 1-0.